# DSPS_Competition_2023
Second DSPS competition was conducted on the application of AI for Pavement Conditon Monitoring. Similar to the first edition of DSPS, the competition will follow a data-centric model instead of the traditional model-centric approaches. Top-down and dash-cam views of pavement image data containing 7 main distress types and their corresponding severities annotated with bounding boxes will be provided. Participants will systematically change/enhance datasets provided using various data cleaning, annotation, augmentation strategies to improve the accuracy of a predefined model architecture.
# Approach Followed
For **Track 1**, we tried to improve the accurcacy, by preventing the overfitting of model. So, to prevent overfitting we change the learning rate and momentum rate and used Adam optimizer. Due to classes greater than 2 in our competition, adam optimizer is used, from research it was observed that adam optimizer best suits for multiple classes. Also, the datasets was augmented in the training and testing process, so for that albumentations.py file was edited, and albumentations need to install on the google colab. The values which are change for track 1 is shown in Track1.ipynb. While detecting the testing images, confidence value and iou threshold values were changed, whichever value gave highest F1Score that was kept.
For **Track 2**, We followed the same approach as of track 1 and used same Yolov5 model for training. But after the training and testing, it was found that F1Score was obtained only 0.667. So, from last edition, it was observed that one of participants first trained model and then again trained model with obtained weights from first training, which help in improving F1 Score. So, we trained our model again with the first trained weights and detected the test images by setting confidence values and iou threshold values, upto highest F1Score we will get.
After detecting the images, Track1.json and Track2.json file was obtained, we submitted into the dsps website. So, F1 Score for Track1 and Track2 obtianed is 0.87 and 0.871.
